adding index prefix mapping parameter documentation (#9541)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/mapping-parameters/index-prefixes.md

---
layout: default
title: Index prefixes
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 90
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Index prefixes

> The `index_prefixes` mapping parameter instructs the engine to generate additional index entries for the beginning segments of terms in a text field. When enabled, it builds a prefix index based on configurable minimum and maximum character lengths. This can significantly improve the performance of prefix queries, such as autocomplete or search-as-you-type, by allowing these queries to quickly match the pre-indexed term prefixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `index_prefixes` mapping parameter instructs the engine to generate additional index entries for the beginning segments of terms in a text field. When enabled, it builds a prefix index based on configurable minimum and maximum character lengths. This can significantly improve the performance of [prefix queries]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/term/prefix/), such as [autocomplete]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/search/autocomplete/) or [search as you type]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/search/autocomplete/#search-as-you-type), by allowing these queries to quickly match the pre-indexed term prefixes.
```

By default, prefix indexing is not performed, keeping the index size minimal and indexing operations fast. However, if your application benefits from rapid prefix matching, enabling this parameter can provide a marked improvement in query efficiency.

## Index prefixes configuration

> Following configuration can be passed to `index_prefixes` mapping parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can pass the following configuration parameters to the `index_prefixes` mapping parameter:
```

> By default, prefix indexing is not performed, keeping the index size minimal and indexing operations fast. However, if your application benefits from rapid prefix matching, enabling this parameter can provide a marked improvement in query efficiency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, prefix indexing is not performed, maintaining minimal index size and fast indexing operations. However, if your application benefits from rapid prefix matching, enabling this parameter can provide a marked improvement in query efficiency.
```

> - `min_chars`: Minimum length of the prefix that needs to be indexed. Minimum is `0`. Default is `2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `min_chars`: The minimum length of the prefix that needs to be indexed. Minimum is `0`. Default is `2`.
```

> - `max_chars`: Maximum length of the prefix that needs to be indexed. Maximum is `20`. Default is `5`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `max_chars`: The maximum length of the prefix that needs to be indexed. Maximum is `20`. Default is `5`.
```

## Enabling index prefixes on a field

> The following request creates an index named `products` with the `name` field configured to build a prefix index with length between `2` and `10` characters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following request creates an index named `products` with the `name` field configured to build a prefix index with a length of between `2` and `10` characters:
```

```json
PUT /products
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "name": {
        "type": "text",
        "index_prefixes": {
          "min_chars": 2,
          "max_chars": 10
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Index a document using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Index a document using the following request:
```

```json
PUT /products/_doc/1
{
  "name": "Ultra HD Television"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The following search request demonstrates a prefix query that looks for documents where the `name` field starts with `ul`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following search request demonstrates a prefix query that searches for documents in which the `name` field starts with `ul`:
```

```json
POST /products/_search
{
  "query": {
    "prefix": {
      "name": "ul"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Expected result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains the matching document:
```

> The following search request demonstrates a prefix query that searches for documents in which the `name` field starts with `ul`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following search request shows a prefix query that searches for documents in which the `name` field starts with `ul`:
```

```json
{
  ...
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "products",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "name": "Ultra HD Television"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Using default parameters with index prefixes

> The following command creates an index named `products_default` using `index_prefixes` with default parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following request creates an index named `products_default` using `index_prefixes` with default parameters:
```

> The following request creates an index named `products_default` using `index_prefixes` with default parameters:

Reviewer 2: Should "the" precede "default"?
